What is sentiment analysis?
We discussed in a previous lecture that
deciding if a movie review was positive or
negative is an important
text classification task and
sentiment is a kind of
text classification.
So deciding that
unbelievably disappointing
suggests that a movie was bad or
richly applied satire is probably good.
Screwball comedy, good, pathetic, bad.
This kind of sentiment can
also be applied to products.
For example, Google Product Search
might want to, for a given product,
like say this particular printer,
might want to automatically
extract facts about the printer and
sentiment for these facts.
So these are called aspects or attributes.
We like to automatically decide that
aspects or attributes of the printer,
like its ease of use or customer service
are important aspects of the printer, and
then automatically
determine the sentiments.
We might want to say from sentences,
like this was very easy to setup, that
most of the sentiment for this product for
this aspect, ease of use is positive.
Perhaps for other kinds, other
aspects of this product like customer
service maybe we saw more negative
sentiment in reviews and less positive.
So the task of reading all the reviews and
from each review noticing phrases
that suggest the sentiment and then
aggregating this sentiment overall reviews
the task of attribute or
aspect detection in sentiment analysis.
And we can see this for
many other products, not just Google.
So Bing has the same thing for
the same printer again.
We can extract aspects like performance,
and ease of use, and print speed, and
summarize from the various reviews
the positive and negative sentiment.
Sentiment can also be applied
to things that aren't products.
For example,
measuring consumer confidence.
So this lovely graph from O'Connor,
et al, looks at sentiment
from Twitter tweets to try to predict
consumer confidence over time.
And what they have shown
you in this blue line here
is sentiment as expressed in Twitter,
positive and negative sentiment, and
in the black line,
you've got gallup poll data.
And they show a pretty good correlation
here between Twitter sentiment and
the Gallup poll, suggesting we can use
Twitter to measure public opinion.
In fact, this kind of Twitter
sentiment has been shown to
directly predict the stock market,
Bollen et al, from Twitter,
extracted things like calmness or
happiness,
various kinds of sentimental attributes
they could extract from Twitter.
And then showed that those
attributes in particular,
they showed that calmness predicts the Dow
Jones Industrial average three days later.
So here's the Dow Jones average and
here's their measure, the scored measure
of calmness they get from Twitter.
And they show that by shifting
calm a little earlier that they
have high predictions in these
regions of the Dow Jones.
Twitter sentiment has
also been used simply to
predict people's sentiment
toward brands in general.
So here's the Twitter sentiment app.
A project by Alec Go and his colleagues
at Stanford who showed that you can take
a query like United Airlines, look at all
the tweets mentioning United Airlines and
determine if they're positive.
Here's positive down here, negative,
here's a couple of negative ones, or
neutral and
then summarize all of the sentiments.
So people, at least when I ran
this query had some pretty
negative things to say about United,
more than they had positive things to say.
So we can use Twitter to see in general
how people feel about all sorts of things.
The task of sentiment analysis
is often called by other names.
We call it opinion extraction, or
opinion mining, sentiment mining,
subjectivity analysis,
lots of different names.
And we're going to use this for all sorts
of tasks, so we've seen a lot of these.
Are movies positive or negative?
What do people think about
products like some new iPhone?
In general,
can we measure public sentiment?
How is consumer confidence?
Are people in despair?
What do people think about
particular candidates, or
particular issues in politics?
And, in general once we can
measure people's sentiment,
can we use that to predict things,
market trends, election outcomes,
anything we might want to predict?
The psychologist
Klaus Scherer has shown that
there are lots of different
kinds of affective states.
We're going to talk about sentiment
as really just one of many kinds of
affective states.
So he talks about emotion.
That's a brief kind of sentiment,
being angry or
being sad, mood, like being cheerful or
being depressed.
And interpersonal stance,
how do I feel toward you?
I feel friendly,
I feel warm, I feel distant.
Sentiment is a subtype of attitudes.
Attitudes are my beliefs or dispositions
towards somebody so do I like something,
do I love it, do I desire it,
do I value it?
And we can talk about very stable
things like personality traits.
Am I an anxious person,
am I a hostile person, and so on.
So sentiment is an attitude,
a kind of enduring,
effectively colored belief or
disposition toward an object or person.
And that definition suggests
the task of sentiment analysis.
We're detecting attitudes, again I given
you the share of definition there.
And we can talk about detecting
who has this attitude.
The holder or source of the attitude.
The target of the attitude or aspect.
What is it that we have
this attitude about?
The type of attitude.
So you can imagine from Scherer's list,
measuring liking, and loving, and hating,
and diving, and desiring.
Or a much more commonly,
a simple weighted polarity.
Are we positively inclined toward this
target, negatively inclined, or neutral?
And we might have some strength value,
how positive and how negative.
And we're going to do this from some text
which has the attitude, and we might
sometimes consider an entire document and
ask what's this whole document sentiment?
Or we might sometimes just look
at individual sentences and
say what is the sentiment
of this sentence?
So the simplest task, is the attitude of
some particular text positive or negative?
Slightly more complex tasks rate the
attitude of this text from one to five.
So give not just a binary value, but
some kind of ordinal or numeric value.
And more advanced sentiment
tasks detect the target,
detect the source, and
maybe detect more complex attitude types.
So this simplest task is the attitude
of this text, positive or
negative is the task that we're
going to spend the most time on today.